{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;}
{\info
{\author wilkox}
{\*\company Toshiba}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12540\viewh16140\viewkind1\viewscale125
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Biogeographic partitioning of Southern Ocean microorganisms revealed by metagenomics\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\qj

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 David Wilkins\super 1\nosupersub , Federico M. Lauro\super 1\nosupersub , Timothy J. Williams\super 1\nosupersub , Matthew Z. Demaere\super 1\nosupersub , Mark V. Brown\super 1,2\nosupersub , Jeffrey M. Hoffman\super 3\nosupersub , Cynthia Andrews-Pfannkoch\super 3\nosupersub , Jeffrey B. Mcquaid\super 3\nosupersub , Martin J. Riddle\super 4\nosupersub , Stephen R. Rintoul\super 5\nosupersub , Ricardo Cavicchioli\super 1,*\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\qj

\b0 \cf0 \nosupersub \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \super 1 \nosupersub School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, 2052, Australia.\
\super 2 \nosupersub Evolution and Ecology Research Centre, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, 2052, Australia.\
\super 3 \nosupersub J. Craig Venter Institute, 9704 Medical Center Drive, Rockville, MD, 20850, USA.\
\super 4\nosupersub  Australian Antarctic Division, Channel Highway, Kingston, Tasmania, 7050, Australia.\
\super 5\nosupersub  CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research, and Centre for Australian Weather and Climate Research - A partnership of the Bureau of Meteorology and CSIRO, and CSIRO Wealth from Oceans National Research Flagship, and the Antarctic Climate and Ecosystems Cooperative Research Centre, Castray Esplanade, Hobart, Tas, 7001, Australia.\
* To whom correspondence should be addressed: Ricardo Cavicchioli, School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Tel. (+61 2) 9385 3516, Fax. (+61 2) 9385 2742, E-mail.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:r.cavicchioli@unsw.edu.au"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 r.cavicchioli@unsw.edu.au}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\i0\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f1\b0 \cf0 Running title: Biogeography of Southern Ocean microorganisms
\f0\b \page \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Summary\
We performed a metagenomic survey (6.6 Gbp of 454 sequence data) of Southern Ocean (SO) microorganisms during the austral summer of 2007\'962008, examining the genomic signatures of communities across a latitudinal transect from Hobart (44\'b0S) to the Mertz Glacier, Antarctica (67\'b0S). Operational taxonomic units (OTUs) of the SAR11 and SAR116 clades and the cyanobacterial genera 
\i Prochlorococcus
\i0  and 
\i Synechococcus
\i0  were strongly overrepresented north of the Polar Front (PF). Conversely, OTUs of the Gammaproteobacterial Sulfur Oxidizer-EOSA-1 (GSO-EOSA-1) complex, the phyla Bacteroidetes and Verrucomicrobia and order Rhodobacterales were characteristic of waters south of the PF. Functions enriched south of the PF included a range of transporters, sulphur reduction and histidine degradation to glutamate, while branched-chain amino acid transport, nucleic acid biosynthesis and methionine salvage were overrepresented north of the PF. The taxonomic and functional characteristics suggested a shift of primary production from cyanobacteria in the north to eukaryotic phytoplankton in the south, and reflected the different trophic statuses of the two regions. The study provides a new level of understanding about SO microbial communities, describing the contrasting taxonomic and functional characteristics of microbial assemblages either side of the PF.\
\
Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\sb60\qj

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 The SO plays a critical role in sustaining marine life around the globe. Upwelling of nutrient-rich Circumpolar Deep Water (CDW) returns nutrients transported to the deep ocean by the sinking of organic matter (Rath
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1998) and supports 75% of global ocean primary production north of 30\'b0S. Surface waters at high southern latitudes remain cold (< 3\'b0C) year-round but undergo extreme seasonal variations in sea-ice cover, light levels and day length. Primary production and biomass are high in summer and very low in winter. Bacteria are abundant in the SO despite the low temperatures and seasonal variability in productivity and are a major route for carbon flow (Hessen
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2004).\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 The SO is composed of several zones separated by circumpolar fronts, the locations of which vary temporally and with longitude (Whitworth III, 1980; Orsi
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1995; Sokolov and Rintoul, 2002). The fronts separate regions with different physiochemical properties, such as density, salinity, temperature and nutrient concentrations (Sokolov and Rintoul, 2002). Hydrographic, bathythermographic and satellite altimetry data have been used to determine the frontal structure of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC) south of Australia (Sokolov and Rintoul, 2002). From north to south, the major fronts are the Subtropical Front (STF), the Subantarctic Front (SAF), the Polar Front (PF) and the southern ACC front (SACCF). Each of these fronts consists of multiple branches (Sokolov and Rintoul, 2002; Sokolov and Rintoul, 2009a, b). The Subantarctic Zone (SAZ) lies between the STF and SAF, the Polar Frontal Zone (PFZ) lies between the SAF and the PF, and the Antarctic Zone (AZ) lies between the PF and the Antarctic continent.\
The PF has been suggested to be a major biogeographical boundary in the distribution and abundance of both zooplankton (Chiba
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2001; Hunt
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2001; Esper and Zonneveld, 2002; Ward
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2003) and bacterioplankton (Selje
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2004; Abell and Bowman, 2005; Giebel
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009; Weber and Deutsch, 2010). However, the microbial assemblages that characterize Antarctic waters are generally poorly understood, and their diversity and functional capacity are not well characterized (Murray and Grzymski, 2007; Wilkins 
\i et al., 
\i0 2012). Large scale metagenome surveys have not previously been performed.\
Recent anthropogenic climate change may be driving the warming and freshening of the ACC (Boning
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2008) and shifting it and its fronts poleward (Fyfe and Saenko, 2005; Biastoch
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009). A community-level understanding is required to effectively understand the main components and dynamics of the microbial food web in the SO and thereby predict the effects of a shifting ACC on the distribution and abundance of plankton. The oceanic changes may have global ecological significance as the SO performs many ecosystem functions, including significant sequestration of anthropogenic CO\sub 2 \nosupersub (Sabine
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2004; Mikaloff Fletcher
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2006) through both physiochemical processes and the \'93biological pump\'94 of CO\sub 2\nosupersub  fixation (Thomalla
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011).\
In the austral summer of 2006 we initiated a metagenome program based on the sampling design of the Global Ocean Sampling (GOS) expedition (Rusch
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007), aimed at providing a baseline to monitor microbial communities in the Australian section of the SO. To date we have sampled SO water from 73\'b0 E to 150\'b0 E and 44\'b0 S to 68\'b0 S at depths from the surface to ~ 3700 m. In this study, we present data for plankton assemblages passed through a 20 \'b5m prefilter and captured onto sequential 0.1 \'b5m, 0.8 \'b5m and 3.0 \'b5m filters. This fractionation approach was originally adopted by the GOS expedition (Rusch
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007) and enables deeper sequencing of a greater representation of the marine microbial community thereby improving the identification of low-abundance taxa. By adopting this approach the metagenome datasets generated from the SO can be directly compared to available GOS data (
\i e.g. 
\i0 Brown 
\i et al.,
\i0 2012). In studies of the SO and marine derived Antarctic lakes, the approach has also proven useful for learning about the microbial ecosystem in the context of resource partitioning, including particle attachment, trophic status and virus\'96host interactions (Ng
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2010; Lauro
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011; Yau
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011; Williams
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012b).\{Lauro, 2011 #405\}\
The samples in our SO study were collected in summer 2007/2008 on the SR3 transect (Sokolov and Rintoul, 2002) of the Climate of Antarctica and the Southern Ocean (CASO), and Collaborative East Antarctica Marine Census (CEAMARC) projects during the International Polar Year (IPY) program (Fig.1). We assessed the taxonomic and functional profiles of microbial communities from either side of the PF, thereby contributing important new information about the microbial ecology of the SO and defining the microbial communities most influenced by the effects of the PF forming a biogeographical barrier. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Results and discussion\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\b0 \cf0 Overview of taxonomic biogeography\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 6.6 Gbp of 454 sequence data representing microorganisms in the size range 0.1 \'96 3.0 \'b5m was obtained from 16 samples. After removal of low-quality reads, 454 sequencing yielded 157,507 to 597,689 reads per sample (mean 354,399) of lengths ranging from 100 to 606 bp (mean 378). The proportion of reads in each sample which yielded matches to RefSeq ranged from 25% to 85% (mean 62%). The most abundant OTUs in each sample are given in Table 1 and a full list of OTU abundances in Table S2. It is important to note that the taxonomic assignments are confident assignments (
\i i.e.
\i0 below an E-value threshold of 1.0 \'d7 10\super -3\nosupersub ) that are limited to the sequences of organisms available in the database and identified by minspec as part of the minimal species set.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 ANOSIM was performed to test for statistically significant differences between the OTU profiles of the zones. The analysis showed that the zones harbor significantly different microbial communities (R = 0.451, p < 0.004). SIMPER was performed in order to identify the contribution of individual OTUs to the differences between the zones. The analysis found that no single OTU contributed more than 2.9% of variance (Fig. 2), and 74% of variance was contributed by OTUs with a contribution less than 1%. There was also a large difference in the contribution to variance of the three size fractions, with approximately 52% of all variance contributed by OTUs from 3.0 \'b5m fraction, 37% by the 0.8 \'b5m fraction, and 9% by the 0.1 \'b5m fraction (Table S3, supporting information).\
Notably, OTUs within several taxonomic groups that had high contribution to variance covaried in their relative representation in the NZ and SZ. For example, Bacteroidetes and GSO-EOSA-1 representatives were on average more abundant in the SZ; while 
\i Prochlorococcus
\i0  and 
\i Synechococcus
\i0  spp., SAR11 and SAR116 were on average more abundant in the NZ (Fig. 2). Some groups, such as the Alteromonadales, had variable relative representation depending on size fraction.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
GSO-EOSA-1\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 The Gammaproteobacterial Sulfur Oxidizer-EOSA-1 (GSO-EOSA-1) cluster, represented in RefSeq by the OTUs 
\i Candidatus 
\i0 \'93Vesicomyosocius okutanii\'94 strain HA and 
\i Candidatus 
\i0 \'93Ruthia magnifica\'94 strain Cm. (
\i Calyptogena magnifica
\i0 ) (Walsh
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009), made a large contribution to variance between the NZ and SZ, with higher abundance in the SZ: relative abundances of GSO-EOSA-1 in the SZ were 5.2%, 3.4% and 0.25% in the 0.1, 0.8 and 3.0 \'b5m size fractions respectively, compared to 1.1%, 0.84% and 0.30% in the NZ. The contribution to variance of this group was highest in the 0.1 \'b5m size fraction, followed by 0.8 \'b5m and 3.0 \'b5m (Fig. 2). This pattern most likely represents a small cell size and lack of association with particulate matter.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 Ca.
\i0  \'93R. magnifica\'94 and 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93V. okutanii\'94 are chemoautotrophic endosymbionts of deep-sea bivalves (Kuwahara
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007; Newton
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007) and are thus unlikely to be present in open ocean surface waters. However, GSO-EOSA-1 representative ARCTIC96BD-19 has recently been reported at high abundance in Antarctic coastal waters (Ghiglione and Murray, 2011; Grzymski
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012). The majority of 16S rRNA genes from our metagenome with best blastn matches to 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93R. magnifica\'94 and 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93V. okutanii\'94 clustered with ARTIC96BD-19 in a neighbour-joining phylogenetic tree (Fig. S1, supporting information), indicating this is the dominant GSO-EOSA-1 representative. Single-cell genomic analysis of ARCTIC96BD-19 from global mesopelagic waters indicates the lineage is probably mixotrophic, able to couple carbon fixation to oxidation of reduced sulphur compounds as well as assimilate organic carbon (Swan
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011). GSO-EOSA-1 cytochrome C oxidase (CoxII) has been identified in a winter metaproteome of Antarctic Peninsula coastal waters, suggesting the capacity for aerobic respiration (Williams
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012a). We assembled our GSO-EOSA-1 affiliated reads and identified several contigs containing ORFs with high identity to aerobic respiration genes, including cytochrome C oxidase subunits, from 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93R. magnifica\'94 and 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93V. okutanii\'94 (Fig. S2, supporting information). Taken together, this evidence suggests the GSO-EOSA-1 representative in Antarctic coastal waters is a versatile chemolithoautotroph capable of aerobic respiration.\
It has been proposed that during the winter months, chemolithoautotrophy is dominant over photoautotrophy as the major carbon fixation input in AZ waters due to the lack of available light, both from seasonal darkness and ice cover (Grzymski
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012). The high relative abundance of GSO-EOSA-1 we detected in SZ compared to NZ waters may therefore represent the remnants of an annual winter increase in population in the marginal ice zone which does not occur in the open ocean.\

\i \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Ammonia-oxidizing Crenarchaeota\
\
Nitrosopumilus maritimus
\i0  SCM1 and 
\i Cenarchaeum symbiosum
\i0  are chemolithoautotrophic, nitrifying members of the Marine Group I Crenarchaeota (MGI) (Preston
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1996; Walker
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2010) and are the only representatives in the reference database of the Ammonia Oxidizing Archaea (AOA). The contribution of OTUs of 
\i C. symbiosum 
\i0 to the AOA signature was low (Table S3, supporting information). As 
\i C. symbiosum
\i0  is a sponge symbiont (Preston
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1996) and given the poor representation of AOA in RefSeq, it is likely this OTU has attracted sequences originating from planktonic AOA and 
\i C. symbiosum 
\i0 itself is not present. AOA were moderate contributors to variance between the NZ and SZ, and were overrepresented in the SZ in all size fractions (Fig. 2). As with the GSO-EOSA-1 cluster, MGI have been proposed to be abundant chemolithoautotrophs and therefore major drivers of winter carbon fixation in Antarctic coastal waters (Grzymski
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012; Williams
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012a).\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Sample 353 had a particularly high relative abundance of 
\i N. maritimus 
\i0 OTUs (7.5% of the 0.1 \'b5m fraction; 0.8 \'b5m: 11%; 3.0 \'b5m: 12%). This sample was taken closer to the Antarctic continent (3.7 km) than any other, in relatively shallow (180 m) waters 17.6 km from the Mertz Glacier. The high abundance of ammonia oxidizers may reflect an input of ammonia from terrestrial sources (
\i e.g.
\i0  penguin guano), or resuspension of benthic sediments in which MGI are abundant (Bowman and McCuaig, 2003) by near-shore turbulence and iceberg scouring. Breakdown of water column stratification has been previously suggested as a cause of increased AOA abundance in Antarctic coastal surface waters (Kalanetra
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009). \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 Cyanobacteria\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx8004\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 OTUs of the cyanobacterial genera 
\i Prochlorococcus
\i0  and 
\i Synechococcus 
\i0 were overrepresented in the NZ in all size fractions (Fig. 3). The mean relative abundance of cyanobacteria in samples 367 and 368, the two northernmost samples, was strikingly higher than the mean abundance across all other samples in the NZ. 
\i Synechococcus 
\i0 sp. CC9902 alone composed greater than 22% of the 0.8 \'b5m fraction in these samples (Table S2, supporting information), consistent with 
\i Synechococcus
\i0  species\'92 average cell diameter of approximately 0.9 \'b5m.The high abundance of both cyanobacterial genera on the 3.0 \'b5m fraction has previously been reported (Lauro
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011) and may be attributable to aggregation (Lomas and Moran, 2011). In view of the robustness of the sequential size fractionation method (Rusch
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007; Ng
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2010; Lauro
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011; Yau
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011; Williams
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012b) the size partitioning of cyanobacteria indicates that a range of sizes (
\i e.g.
\i0  aggregates) are present in the SO. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Samples 367 and 368 were separated from the other samples north of the PF by the Subtropical Front (STF). While the STF was not a significant boundary on the assemblage level, it may mark a significant biogeographical boundary for these cyanobacteria. 
\i Synechococcus
\i0  and 
\i Prochlorococcus
\i0  together represent a large proportion of both phytoplankton abundance and carbon fixation in temperate and tropical waters, in many regions contributing more than half of total primary production (Liu
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1997; Liu
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1998; Andr\'e9
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1999). The role of the STF in determining the latitudinal range of 
\i Synechococcus
\i0  and 
\i Prochlorococcus
\i0  is therefore important, as it will affect models of ocean productivity under changing climactic conditions, and warrants further investigation. Despite the high abundance of cyanobacteria north of the STZ, they were also a significant feature of the SAZ; for example, 
\i Synechococcus
\i0  sp. CC9902 composed 3\'965% of the 0.8 \'b5m fraction in SAZ samples. Our results extend the latitudinal distribution of both 
\i Prochlorococcus 
\i0 and 
\i Synechococcus 
\i0 to include presence at very low abundance as far south as the Antarctic coast. 
\i Prochlorococcus 
\i0 have been reported to be restricted to tropical and subtropical waters within 40\'ba of latitude (Partensky
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1999), and to be a negligible (Ghiglione and Murray, 2011) or undetectable (Gryzymski 
\i et al.,
\i0  2012) component of marine picoplankton in Antarctic waters. However, our findings are consistent with findings of a logarithmic relationship of cyanobacterial numbers with temperature, where cyanobacteria were found at concentrations of 10\super 3\nosupersub  \'96 10\super 4\nosupersub  cells per litre even in the coldest waters, approximately four orders of magnitude less than in waters around Tasmania (Marchant
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1987). Cyanophage proteins have also been detected in a metaproteomic analysis of Antarctic Peninsula coastal surface waters (Williams 
\i et al.,
\i0  2012a). The depth of shotgun metagenome sequence coverage of our samples is likely to have contributed to the detection of these cyanobacteria.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
SAR11 and SAR116 clades\
\
Candidatus 
\i0 \'93Pelagibacter ubique\'94 HTCC1062 is a good representative of total SAR11 abundance in our study, as it is a member of the SAR11 phylotype which is most abundant in SO waters (Brown
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012). 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93P. ubique\'94 HTCC1062 was the most abundant OTU across all samples and fractions (NZ average: 62%, 25% and 24% of the 0.1 \'b5m, 0.8 \'b5m and 3.0 \'b5m fractions respectively; SZ: 59%, 22% and 18%) and one of the most significant contributors to variance between the NZ and SZ. The high abundance of SAR11 in the 0.1 \'b5m fraction is consistent with the small size of SAR11 cells (Rapp\'e9
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2002). The higher representation in the NZ may reflect the competitiveness of SAR11 members in regions with low DOC concentrations due to low primary productivity (Giovannoni
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2005; Alonso and Pernthaler, 2006), such as the high-nutrient, low-chlorophyll (HNLC) SAZ region of the SO. Overall, our findings are consistent with reports that SAR11 is ubiquitous in the world\'92s oceans (
\i e.g. 
\i0 Mary 
\i et al., 
\i0 2006; Carlson 
\i et al., 
\i0 2009) and more abundant north of the ACC (Giebel
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009).\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 OTUs of
\i  Candidatus 
\i0 \'93Puniceispirillum marinum\'94 from the SAR116 clade were a moderate contributor to variance between the NZ and SZ with higher abundance in the NZ (Fig. 2). A genomic analysis reported 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93P. marinum\'94 IMCC1322 to be a metabolic generalist with genes for aerobic CO fixation, C\sub 1\nosupersub  metabolism and a 
\i Ca. 
\i0 \'93P. ubique\'94-like dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) demethylase, suggesting SAR116 and SAR11 occupy similar ecological niches (Oh
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2010). In the Scotia Sea, SAR116 abundance (determined using fluorescence 
\i in situ
\i0  hybridisation) was reported to be higher in more productive waters where SAR11 numbers were lower (Topping
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2006). However, our analysis across an extended latitudinal transect indicates that overall SAR11 and SAR116 have similar biogeographic distributions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
Bacteroidetes\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 OTUs of the phylum Bacteroidetes, in particular members of the class Flavobacteria, were found to be abundant (NZ average: 1.2%, 5.0% and 6.9% of the 0.1 \'b5m, 0.8 \'b5m and 3.0 \'b5m fractions respectively; SZ: 2.3%, 9.8% and 9.1%) and significant contributors to variance between the NZ and SZ (Fig. 2). Flavobacteria have been previously reported to compose the majority of both Bacteroidetes (Murray and Grzymski, 2007) and total planktonic biomass (Abell and Bowman, 2005) in the SO, as well as being abundant in sea ice (Brown and Bowman, 2001). As heterotrophic degraders of High Molecular Weight (HMW) compounds in the form of both Dissolved and Particulate Organic Matter (DOM and POM) (Kirchman, 2002), marine Flavobacteria are major components of marine aggregates (Rath
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1998; Crump
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1999; Zhang
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007). The higher abundance of Flavobacteria OTUs on the 0.8 \'b5m and 3.0 \'b5m fractions indicates their association with particulate matter. Size partitioning of SO Flavobacteria has previously been reported (Abell and Bowman, 2005), and the ecophysiology of planktonic cells captured on 0.1 \'b5m filters has been described using metagenomics and metaproteomics (Williams
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012b).\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 The higher abundance of OTUs of Flavobacteria in the SZ may reflect an input of cells from melting sea ice (Brown and Bowman, 2001), the higher rates of primary productivity in the south, and the role of the Flavobacteria as degraders of HMW DOM. Because deposition of marine snow is a major route for sequestration of fixed carbon in the ocean (
\i e.g. 
\i0 Hessen
\i  et al., 
\i0 2004), the Flavobacteria that associate with this particulate matter represent a remineralizing shunt, which would decrease carbon sequestration by this route.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
Rhodobacterales\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 Members of the order Rhodobacterales were abundant (NZ average: 1.2%, 10% and 5.5% of the 0.1 \'b5m, 0.8 \'b5m and 3.0 \'b5m fractions respectively; SZ: 1.6%, 13% and 7.9%) and high contributors to variance, overrepresented in the SZ on all size fractions. As several members of the Roseobacter clade have been shown to have symbiotic relationships with marine eukaryotic algae (Buchan and Moran, 2005; Wagner-Dobler and Biebl, 2006), and their abundance in the SO has previously been linked to phytoplankton blooms (West
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2008; Obernosterer
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011), it is likely that their overrepresentation in the SZ is related to the higher density of phytoplankton in the AZ.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 OTUs of 
\i Roseobacter denitrificans
\i0  Och114 and 
\i Silicibacter pomeroyi
\i0  DSS-3 were consistently the most abundant Roseobacter clade representatives. 
\i R. denitrificans
\i0  and 
\i S. pomeroyi
\i0  fall within a subclade of Aerobic Anoxygenic Phototrophic (AAP) members of the 
\i Roseobacter
\i0  clade (Swingley
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007). These species have diverse mixotrophic metabolisms, with genomic and experimental evidence of photoheterotrophic respiration of organic carbon, fixation of CO\sub 2\nosupersub , oxidation of CO, oxidation of reduced sulfur compounds, and utilization of the abundant marine osmolyte DMSP (King, 2003; Moran
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2004; Wagner-Dobler and Biebl, 2006; Swingley
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007; Brinkhoff
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2008; Howard
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2008). This metabolic diversity suggests a complex ecological role, particularly with respect to the capture and release of climatically active gases (CO\sub 2\nosupersub , CO, dimethylsulfide) involved in carbon and sulfur cycling.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 Alteromonadales\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 Members of the gammaproteobacterial order Alteromonadales were large contributors to variance. Most OTUs were overrepresented in the SZ but some were overrepresented in the NZ on the 3.0 \'b5m fraction (Fig. 2). 
\i Colwellia psychrerythraea
\i0  34H was one of the most abundant OTUs in the Alteromonadales that exhibited this distribution (NZ average: 0.14%, 2.2% and 16% of the 0.1 \'b5m, 0.8 \'b5m and 3.0 \'b5m fractions respectively; SZ: 0.52%, 5.1% and 10%). 
\i C. psychrerythraea 
\i0 34H was isolated from Arctic sediment, grows well at low temperatures and secretes extracellular polysaccharides ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22_ENREF_47%22%20%5Co%20%22Myers,%202000%20#714%22"}}{\fldrslt Huston 
\i et al.
\i0 , 2000}}; Junge 
\i et al.,
\i0  2003; Meth\'e9
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2005). Similar to other 
\i Colwellia
\i0  species grown under laboratory conditions, cells have widths of 0.4\'960.8 \'b5m and lengths of 1.5\'964.5 \'b5m (Jung
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2006). Growth temperature can have a major impact on cell morphology, enzyme secretion and global gene expression in psychrophiles (
\i e.g. 
\i0 Feller and Gerday, 2003; Junge
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2003; Williams
\i  et al.,
\i0  2011; Cavicchioli, 2006; Campanaro
\i  et al.,
\i0 2011). Moreover, marine bacteria can alter their cell dimensions in response to nutrient flux, 
\i e.g.
\i0  the copiotroph 
\i Photobacterium angustum
\i0  undergoes reductive cell division (Kjelleberg
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1987; Lauro
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009). It is therefore possible that the populations of Alteromonadales captured on the 3.0 \'b5m filters (overrepresented in the NZ) had different physiological properties to those on the 0.1 and 0.8 \'b5m filters (overrepresented in the SZ). In this regard it is noteworthy that biogeographical differences in phylotypes within the SAR11 clade have been shown to correlate with environmental temperature (Brown
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\b0 \cf0 Verrucomicrobia\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 Two representatives of the phylum Verrucomicrobia, 
\i Coraliomargarita akajimensis
\i0  and 
\i Akkermansia
\i0  sp. Muc-30, were moderate contributors to variance and overrepresented in the SZ (Fig. 2). Surprisingly given the small cell size of 
\i C. akajimensis 
\i0 (Yoon
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007), contribution to variance increased with size fraction; a global survey reported a similar fractionation pattern, and suggested marine Verrucomicrobia may be predominantly particle attached (Freitas
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012). However, little else is known about the distribution and ecological roles of marine Verrucomicrobia (Freitas
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2012).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
Overview of functional biogeography\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 ANOSIM analysis of the samples\'92 KEGG ortholog group and module profiles revealed that the zones had significantly different functional potential (ortholog group: R = 0.642, p < 0.001; module: R = 0.871, p < 0.001). SIMPER was performed on the profiles in order to identify the specific functional differences between the zones. No single ortholog group or module contributed more than 2.2% of the variance, indicating a complex and diverse pattern of functional differences (Table S4 and Table S5, supporting information). There was a strong trend for ortholog groups and modules with higher contributions to variance to be overrepresented in the NZ in the 3.0 \'b5m fraction but the SZ in the smaller fractions, indicating that the functional diversity of each zone was strongly segregated by size fraction.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 It is important to note that these results reflect only genomically encoded functional potential, not differences in the levels of gene products. In particular, over- or under-represented functions reflect differences in the taxa present and their adaptation to the different zones, rather than biogeographic differences in gene regulation. These genetic differences may also reflect within-population selection, such as the dominance of fitter strains or ecotypes (see for example Brown 
\i et al
\i0 ., 2012).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 Functional capacities distinguished by the PF\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 A number of modules with transport functions (sn-glycerol 3-phosphate transport system, dipeptide transport system, peptides/nickel transport system, simple sugar transport system, sulfonate/nitrate/taurine transport system) were overrepresented in the SZ (Table 2 and S6). As the genomes of copiotrophic bacteria have evolved to have a higher number of narrow-specificity transporters relative to oligotrophic genomes (Lauro
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009), these differences may reflect the higher nutrient availability and thus a dominance of copiotrophs in the SZ. The taxonomic contributors to these modules were varied, although members of the Rhodobacterales were prominent (Fig. 3). The glycine betaine/proline transport module was also overrepresented in the SZ, though this probably reflects glycine betaine\'92s role as an osmo- and cryoprotectant in the colder SZ waters. This is supported by the major taxonomic contributor to this module, genus 
\i Psychromonas
\i0 , which includes several psychrophilic species. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 One exception to this pattern was the branched-chain amino acid transport system module, overrepresented in the NZ. The genera 
\i Pelagibacter 
\i0 and 
\i Puniceispirillum
\i0  were major contributors to this module\'92s overabundance in the NZ (Fig. 3). As both SAR11 (Giovannoni 
\i et al.
\i0 , 2005) and SAR116 (Grote 
\i et al.
\i0 , 2011) representatives encode branched-chain amino acid transporters, the abundance of this module is likely to represent taxonomic differences between the zones.\
Biosynthesis pathways for all major nucleic acids (pyrimidine deoxyribonuleotide biosynthesis, adenine nucleotide biosynthesis, guanine nucleotide biosynthesis) were consistently high contributors to variance and overabundant in the NZ. This pattern seems inconsistent with the more oligotrophic nature of the NZ, as oligotrophic cells generally have smaller genomes (Lauro
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009) and slower growth rates than copiotrophs, and would therefore be expected to require a lower rate of 
\i de novo
\i0  nucleotide biosynthesis. A possible explanation for this is that SZ cells have higher availability of extracellular DNA as a byproduct of decaying phytoplankton (Lomas and Moran, 2011), which can be imported and salvaged for nucleic acids (Pop
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2004) thus reducing the requirement for 
\i de novo
\i0  synthesis. No single taxonomic group contributed a large fraction of the difference in this module (Fig. 3), suggesting this is a widespread adaptation.\
The methionine salvage pathway module had a large contribution to variance between the zones and was overrepresented north of the PF. This may reflect the higher availability of dimethylsulphoniopropionate (DMSP) in the SZ as a byproduct of blooming eukaryotic algae. DMSP is a major carbon and sulfur source for marine microorganisms, and is commonly assimilated by bacteria through demethylation to methylmercaptopropionate (MMPA), followed by further catabolism to the climatically important dimethylsulfide or methanethiol (reviewed by Curson
\i  et al., 
\i0 2011). However, when DMSP is scarce, MMPA may be derived from methionine through the alternative methionine salvage pathway (Reisch
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011). The genus 
\i Synechococcus
\i0 , a noted contributor to marine DMSP uptake and assimilation (Vila-Costa
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2006), was a very high contributor to the abundance of this module in the NZ (Fig. 3), suggesting 
\i Synechococcus
\i0  species may use this route when DMSP is unavailable.\
The sulfur reduction module was overrepresented in the SZ, and it is likely that this result is strongly driven by taxonomic differences. While the taxonomic breakdown indicated a large number of genera contributed to the difference, the gammaproteobacteria were the highest-contributing class (Fig. 3). This module also includes the assimilatory sulfate reduction pathway, which is widespread in marine bacteria, but is absent from SAR11, with known representatives reported to lack genes for assimilatory sulfate reduction (
\i cysDNCHIJ
\i0 ) (Tripp
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2008). The higher relative abundance of SAR11 in the NZ may therefore contribute to the lower abundance of genes for assimilatory sulfate reduction in that zone. \
The sulfur reduction module also included adenylylsulfate reductase (APS reductase, encoded by 
\i aprAB
\i0 ), an enzyme implicated in sulfite detoxification during heterotrophic growth on organosulfonates (Meyer and Kuever, 2007) (N.B. in recent KEGG releases, 
\i aprA
\i0  is no longer included in this module). As the GSO-EOSA-1 representative SUP05 has been found to encode APS reductase, the overabundance of this module may reflect sulfur oxidation through the reverse dissimilatory sulfate reduction pathway (Walsh
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009). Also, 
\i Roseobacter
\i0  clade bacteria are involved in the decomposition of abundant organic sulfur compounds (
\i e.g
\i0 ., DMSP, organosulfonates), and hence have been accorded an important role in marine sulfur cycling (Moran
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007).\
The photosystem II module was overrepresented in the NZ. Given the underrepresentation of cyanobacterial OTUs in the SZ, this may reflect a dominance of primary production by eukaryotic algae south of the PF and cyanobacteria to the north. Decomposition of the taxonomic affiliations of ortholog groups contributing to this module found OTUs of 
\i Synechococcus
\i0  and 
\i Prochlorococcus
\i0  to be major contributors to the difference (Fig. 3). Variation in the photosystem I module, which was marginally overrepresented in the SZ, could largely be attributed to diatoms and other eukaryotic phytoplankton (Fig. 3), again supporting a dominance of eukaryotic phytoplankton in SZ primary production. Diatoms have previously been reported at higher abundance south of the PF, and their distribution is likely to be linked to the higher concentration of dissolved silica in that region (Trull
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2001). As both eukaryotic phytoplankton and cyanobacteria would be expected to encode both complete photosystems, the differences in module abundance probably reflect the degree of similarity between the photosystem I and II genes in the KEGG database and those found in the sampled environments. \
The histidine degradation to glutamate module, which comprises four ortholog groups mediating the degradation of histidine to glutamate via N-formiminoglutamate, was overrepresented in the SZ. The histidine biosynthesis module was also overrepresented in the SZ. While the concentration of dissolved histidine in the SO is generally low (Kawahata and Ishizuka, 2000), blooming eukaryotic phytoplankton (which are more prevalent in the SZ) may deplete nitrate while releasing DFAA. As DFAA become available, they are used by bacteria to sense the decaying bloom. Histidine may therefore act as a proxy for DFAA to regulate the expression of bacterial aminopeptidases, which are involved in lysing diatoms (Bidle and Azam, 2001). The class Bacteroidetes, while a small contributor to the histidine biosynthesis module in the SZ, was a large contributor to histidine degradation (Fig. 3), supporting an association between Bacteroidetes and phytoplanktonic bloom products. It is also possible that uptake and degradation of histidine to glutamate (which generates ammonia as a by-product) may function as a limited nitrogen source.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
Biogeographic role of the PF\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 Our results show that there are major taxonomic and functional differences across the PF. The differences in functional potential between the NZ and SZ reflect both their taxonomic profiles and fundamental trophic and ecological differences. In particular, they provide genomic support that the NZ is more oligotrophic than the SZ (Pollard
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2002; Giovannoni
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2005; Alonso and Pernthaler, 2006; Lauro
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009), and are consistent with the observation that primary production is higher south of the PF (Strutton
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2000; Williams
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2010). Our findings extend previous work in defining the PF as a strong biogeographic boundary which shapes not only the composition, but also the functional capacity of microbial communities in the SO.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 A possible alternative hypothesis for the observed separation is that the samples are partitioned by the continental margin, as all but one of the SZ samples were taken in waters over the Antarctic continental shelf and slope in the vicinity of the Mertz glacier polynya. However, ANOSIM analysis of an alternative grouping of the samples into \'93polynya\'94 and \'93open ocean\'94 had poorer support (R = 0.309, p < 0.01) than the grouping based on the PF. Additional taxonomic profiles for samples taken from the region south of the PF in other seasons (austral summers 06/07, 08/09) and in other sectors of the SO (70\'96115\'b0 E) also supported the PF as the major discriminator (data not shown). Taken together, this evidence strongly supports the hypothesis that the PF is a major biogeographical boundary in the SO independent of a latitudinal gradient or of the effect of the continental margin and Mertz polynya.\
These results do not exclude the possibility that other major SO fronts, particularly the STF and SAF, are also significant biogeographic boundaries, as has been reported in some previous reports for specific taxonomic groups (
\i e.g. 
\i0 Abell and Bowman, 2005). While the sampling resolution in this study was not sufficient to resolve the effects of other fronts, there are some indications in the data of further structure within the zones. The two samples north of the STF had significantly larger cyanobacterial populations than the remaining NZ samples (see discussion of 
\i Prochlorococcus
\i0  and 
\i Synechococcus
\i0 , above). Future sampling across these fronts at higher resolution will provide the data necessary to investigate finer biogeographic patterns.\
The nature and function of microbial communities in the SO are of global significance because of the large oceanic expanse that is involved and the importance of the carbon fixation and nutrient cycling that occurs there. Knowledge of these communities and their biogeographic drivers has relevance for understanding and predicting the long-term effects of environmental change in the region. Our findings provide a basis for predicting how climate change-driven shifts in the SO may affect microbial communities; in particular, the effects of changes in the nature and location of the ACC on the ecosystem functions of SO microorganisms.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs24 \cf0 Experimental procedures\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\b0 \cf0 Sampling and DNA sequencing\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 A volume of ~ 500 L per sample was collected by sequential size fractionation through a 20 \'b5m prefilter directly onto 3.0, 0.8 and 0.1 \'b5m pore sized 293 mm polyethersulfone membrane filters, and cryogenically preserved (Rusch
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007; Ng
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2010). DNA extraction (Rusch
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2007) and pyrosequencing on GS20 FLX Titanium (Roche, Branford, CT, USA) was performed at the J. Craig Venter Institute in Rockville, MD, USA as described previously (Lauro
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011; Brown 
\i et al.,
\i0  2012). Duplicate reads and reads with many pyrosequencing errors were removed as described previously (Lauro
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2011).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 Grouping of samples by oceanographic zone\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 A range of data were recorded on board the RSV 
\i Aurora Australis
\i0 , including position, sampling and water column depth, ocean temperature, salinity and fluorescence, and meteorological data (Table S1, supporting information). These were used to locate the PFZ based on a surface temperature gradient ~ 1.35C across a distance of 45\'9665 km, placing the PF at approximately \uc0\u8722 59.70\'b0, consistent with previous descriptions (Moore
\i  et al.
\i0 , 1999; Sokolov and Rintoul, 2002). Samples were accordingly grouped into \'93North\'94 (NZ) and \'93South\'94 (SZ) zones (Table S1, supporting information). The NZ represents waters from Subtropical, Subantarctic and Polar Frontal Zones, while the SZ represents the AZ.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
Comparison to RefSeq database\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 A subset of the RefSeq microbial (bacteria and archaea) genome database (release 41, retrieved May 31 2010 from ftp://ftp.ncbi.nih.gov/refseq/release/) was prepared by excluding sequences with the words \'93shotgun\'94, \'93contig\'94, \'93partial\'94, \'93end\'94 or \'93part\'94 in their headers (Angly
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009). Because this database was not expected to contain representative genomes for every species present, Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs) in this study are defined by the best species match in this database, and may for example represent congeners.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 The metagenomic reads from each sample were compared against this database using tblastx, with default parameters except for: E-value threshold [-e] 1.0 \'d7 10\super -3\nosupersub ; cost to open gap [-G] 11; cost to extend gap [-E] 1; masking of query sequence [-F] m S (SEG masking for lookup table only).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
Identification of minimal species sets\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 A computational method to minimise false OTU identifications and increase the accuracy of OTU abundance estimates (minspec) was developed and implemented in perl. Following the approach of Ye and Doak (2009) to the parsimonious reconstruction of biochemical pathways (MinPath), minspec computes the smallest set of OTUs sufficient to explain a set of observed high-quality hits against RefSeq (or any other sequence database). The minimal set computation is framed as a linear programming problem and solved with the GNU Linear Programming Kit (glpk) tool \'93GLPK linear programming/MIP solver\'94 (glpsol) (Free Software Foundation, Boston). This approach eliminates many of the spurious OTU identifications which result from reads with strong identity to more than one OTU. The \'93minimal species set\'94 is liable to exclude some low-abundance OTUs, but gives more faithful abundance estimates and eliminates many false positives.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 To validate this approach and estimate error rates, an assemblage of hypothetical taxa was simulated with varying degrees of overlapping genomic identity and a logarithmic rank-abundance curve. A simulated metagenomic sampling and blast search was performed on this set, and the results processed with minspec. Over multiple replications, minspec was consistently able to identify the true set and reject spurious identifications, with false positive and negative rates smaller than 5% (excluding unsampled rare taxa).\
The outputs of all tblastx searches against RefSeq were processed by minspec, and hits not belonging to the minimal sets were removed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
OTU abundance and variance between zones\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 The relative OTU abundances for each sample were determined using the perl script Genome relative Abundance and Average Size (gaas) (Angly
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2009). Briefly, gaas estimates the relative abundance of OTUs from the number and quality of blast hits to each species, taking into account differences in genome size. gaas was run with the default settings. To normalise for reads which did not yield acceptable hits, the relative abundances for each sample were scaled by that sample\'92s effective blast hit rate. An OTU profile was generated for each sample by encoding the scaled relative abundance of each OTU from each size fraction as a separate variable.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 To test the hypothesis that the oceanic zones harbour significantly different communities, one-way Analysis Of SIMilarities (ANOSIM) with 999 permutations was performed on a standardised, log-transformed Bray-Curtis resemblance matrix of OTU profiles with primer 6. SIMilarity PERcentages (SIMPER) analysis was performed with primer 6 to identify the contribution of individual OTUs to differences between the zones. All statistical procedures using primer 6 were performed as described by Clarke and Warwick (2001).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 Assembly of GSO-EOSA-1 contigs\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 To investigate the physiological potential of the GSO-EOSA representative identified in the SZ, reads with identity to 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93R. magnifica\'94 and/or 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93V. okutanii\'94 were assembled using the Celera WGS Assembler v6.1 (Myers, 2000). 242 large (> 2 kbp) contigs were used for ORF prediction by MetaGene (Noguchi
\i  et al.
\i0 , 2006), and predicted ORFs compared against the NCBI nr database with blastx (E-value threshold [-e] 1.0 \'d7 10\super -3\nosupersub ). The resulting annotated contigs were manually analysed for genes of interest.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
Comparison to KEGG database\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 In order to identify functional differences between the zones, the set of metagenomic reads from each sample was compared against the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) GENES database (retrieved July 2 2010 from ftp://ftp.genome.jp/pub/kegg/genes/fasta/genes.pep) with blastx, with default parameters except for: maximum number of database sequence alignments [-b] 10; E-value threshold [-e] 1.0 \'d7 10\super -3\nosupersub ; gap opening penalty [-G] 11; gap extension penalty [-E] 1; masking of query sequence [-F] m S (SEG masking for lookup table only).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 \
Analysis of functional potential\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0 \cf0 Genes identified by blastx were aggregated to KEGG ortholog groups according to the KEGG Orthology schema (ftp://ftp.genome.jp/pub/kegg/genes/ko, retrieved Mar 29 2011), and ortholog group abundances calculated for each sample. Following Coleman and Chisholm (2010), a read was considered a hit to a given ortholog group if the top three hits for that read (or all hits if fewer than three total hits) were to genes from the same ortholog group, and had bit scores > 40. If the bit score difference between any two top hits was greater than 30, only the hits above this difference were considered.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Ortholog group counts were then used to calculate the abundance of KEGG modules. Because many ortholog groups are members of more than one module, the abundance (
\i a\sub m
\i0 \nosupersub ) of each module 
\i m 
\i0 was calculated as\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Where 
\i n
\i0  is the number of ortholog groups 
\i K
\i0  belonging to module 
\i m
\i0 , 
\i C\sub K
\i0 \nosupersub  is the number of hits to ortholog group K, and 
\i M\sub K 
\i0 \nosupersub is the total number of modules to which 
\i K
\i0  belongs. To account for differences in sequencing depth between samples, module abundances were scaled to 500,000 reads per sample. To test the hypothesis that the NZ and SZ harbour significantly different functional potential, one-way ANOSIM with 999 permutations was performed as above on a standardised, log-transformed Bray-Curtis distance resemblance matrix of the module and ortholog group profiles. A functional profile was generated for each sample by summing the scaled abundances of each module from all size fractions, and SIMPER performed as above to identify modules which contributed highly to the variation in functional potential between the two zones. Modules with a high contribution to variance or of specific interest were then linked to taxonomy (\'93taxonomic decomposition\'94) by noting the genus of the organism associated with each gene in the KEGG GENES database and thus calculating the relative contribution of each genus to each module\'92s abundance. This allowed us to putatively assign functional contributions to genera which were not identified in our taxonomic analysis, as the database included gene sequences for organisms for which a full genome was not available.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\sb60\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Acknowledgments\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\sb60\qj

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 The authors acknowledge technical support for computing infrastructure and software development from Intersect, and in particular assistance from Joachim Mai, and acknowledge Matthew Lewis from the JCVI for his assistance with DNA sequencing. This work was supported by the Australian Research Council and the Australian Antarctic Division. Funding for sequencing was provided by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation to the JCVI.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 References
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\sa60
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li426\fi-426\ri0\sl480\slmult1\sb60
\cf0 Abell, G.C.J., and Bowman, J.P. (2005) Ecological and biogeographic relationships of class Flavobacteria in the Southern Ocean. 
\i FEMS Microbiol Ecol 
\i0\b 51
\b0 : 265-277.\
Alonso, C., and Pernthaler, J. (2006) Roseobacter and SAR11 dominate microbial glucose uptake in coastal North Sea waters. 
\i Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 8
\b0 : 2022-2030.\
Andr\'e9, J.-M., Navarette, C., Blanchot, J., and Radenac, M.-H. (1999) Picophytoplankton dynamics in the equatorial Pacific: Growth and grazing rates from cytometric counts. 
\i J Geophys Res 
\i0\b 104
\b0 : 3369-3380.\
Angly, F.E., Willner, D., Prieto-Davo, A., Edwards, R.A., Schmieder, R., Vega-Thurber, R.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2009) The GAAS metagenomic tool and its estimations of viral and microbial average genome size in four major biomes. 
\i PLoS Comput Biol 
\i0\b 5
\b0 : e1000593.\
Biastoch, A., Boning, C.W., Schwarzkopf, F.U., and Lutjeharms, J.R.E. (2009) Increase in Agulhas leakage due to poleward shift of Southern Hemisphere westerlies. 
\i Nature 
\i0\b 462
\b0 : 495-498.\
Bidle, K.D., and Azam, F. (2001) Bacterial control of silicon regeneration from diatom detritus: Significance of bacterial ectohydrolases and species identity. 
\i Limnol Oceanogr 
\i0\b 46
\b0 : 1606-1623.\
Boning, C.W., Dispert, A., Visbeck, M., Rintoul, S.R., and Schwarzkopf, F.U. (2008) The response of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current to recent climate change. 
\i Nature Geosci 
\i0\b 1
\b0 : 864-869.\
Bowman, J.P., and McCuaig, R.D. (2003) Biodiversity, Community Structural Shifts, and Biogeography of Prokaryotes within Antarctic Continental Shelf Sediment. 
\i Appl Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 69
\b0 : 2463-2483.\
Brinkhoff, T., Giebel, H.-A., and Simon, M. (2008) Diversity, ecology, and genomics of the Roseobacter clade: a short overview. 
\i Arch Microbiol 
\i0\b 189
\b0 : 531-539.\
Brown, M., Lauro, F., DeMaere, M., Muir, L., Wilkins, D., Thomas, T.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2012) Global biogeography of SAR11 marine bacteria. 
\i Mol Syst Biol 
\i0\b 8:
\b0  595.\
Brown, M.V., and Bowman, J.P. (2001) A molecular phylogenetic survey of sea-ice microbial communities (SIMCO). 
\i FEMS Microbiol Ecol 
\i0\b 35
\b0 : 267-275.\
Buchan, A., and Moran, M.A. (2005) Overview of the Marine Roseobacter Lineage. 
\i Appl Environ Microbiol 
\i0 7
\b 1
\b0 : 5665-5677.\
Campanaro, S., Williams, T.J., Burg, D.W., De Francisci, D., Treu, L., Lauro, F.M., and Cavicchioli, R. (2011) Temperature-dependent global gene expression in the Antarctic archaeon 
\i Methanococcoides burtonii
\i0 . 
\i Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 13
\b0 : 2018-2038.\
Carlson, C.A., Morris, R., Parsons, R., Treusch, A.H., Giovannoni, S.J., and Vergin, K. (2009) Seasonal dynamics of SAR11 populations in the euphotic and mesopelagic zones of the northwestern Sargasso Sea. 
\i ISME J 
\i0\b 3
\b0 : 283-295.\
Cavicchioli, R. (2006) Cold adapted Archaea. 
\i Nat Rev Microbiol 
\i0\b 4
\b0 : 331-343.\
Chiba, S., Ishimaru, T., Hosie, G., and Fukuchi, M. (2001) Spatio-temporal variability of zooplankton community structure off east Antarctica (90 to 160\'b0 E). 
\i Mar Ecol Prog Ser 
\i0\b 216
\b0 : 95-108.\
Clarke, K.R., and Warwick, R.M. (2001) 
\i Change in Marine Communities: An Approach to Statistical Analysis and Interpretation
\i0 . Plymoth: PRIMER-E.\
Coleman, M.L., and Chisholm, S.W. (2010) Ecosystem-specific selection pressures revealed through comparative population genomics. 
\i Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 
\i0\b 107
\b0 : 18634-18639.\
Crump, B.C., Armbrust, E.V., and Baross, J.A. (1999) Phylogenetic analysis of particle-attached and free-living bacterial communities in the Columbia river, its estuary, and the adjacent coastal ocean. 
\i Appl Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 65
\b0 : 3192-3204.\
Curson, A.R.J., Todd, J.D., Sullivan, M.J., and Johnston, A.W.B. (2011) Catabolism of dimethylsulphoniopropionate: microorganisms, enzymes and genes. 
\i Nat Rev Microbiol
\i0  
\b 9
\b0 : 849-859.\
Esper, O., and Zonneveld, K.A. (2002) Distribution of organic-walled dinoflagellate cysts in surface sediments of the Southern Ocean (eastern Atlantic sector) between the Subtropical Front and the Weddell Gyre. 
\i Mar Micropaleontol 
\i0\b 46
\b0 : 177-208.\
Feller, G., and Gerday, C. (2003) Psychrophilic enzymes: hot topics in cold adaptation. 
\i Nat Rev Microbiol 
\i0\b 1
\b0 : 200-208.\
Freitas, S., Hatosy, S., Fuhrman, J.A., Huse, S.M., Welch, D.B.M., Sogin, M.L., and Martiny, A.C. (2012) Global distribution and diversity of marine Verrucomicrobia. 
\i ISME J 
\i0\b 6
\b0 : 1499-1505.\
Fyfe, J.C., and Saenko, O.A. (2005) Human-Induced Change in the Antarctic Circumpolar Current. 
\i J Climate 
\i0\b 18
\b0 : 3068-3073.\
Ghiglione, J.F., and Murray, A.E. (2011) Pronounced summer to winter differences and higher wintertime richness in coastal Antarctic marine bacterioplankton. 
\i Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 14
\b0 : 617-629.\
Giebel, H.-A., Brinkhoff, T., Zwisler, W., Selje, N., and Simon, M. (2009) Distribution of Roseobacter RCA and SAR11 lineages and distinct bacterial communities from the subtropics to the Southern Ocean. 
\i Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 11
\b0 : 2164-2178.\
Giovannoni, S.J., Tripp, H.J., Givan, S., Podar, M., Vergin, K.L., Baptista, D.
\i  et al. 
\i0 (2005) Genome streamlining in a cosmopolitan oceanic bacterium. 
\i Science 
\i0\b 309
\b0 : 1242-1245.\
Grote, J., Bayindirli, C., Bergauer, K., Carpintero de Moraes, P., Chen, H., D'Ambrosio, L., Edwards, B., 
\i et al.
\i0  (2011). Draft genome sequence of strain HIMB100, a cultured representative of the SAR116 clade of marine Alphaproteobacteria. 
\i SIGS
\i0  
\b 5
\b0 : 269\'96278.\
Grzymski, J.J., Riesenfeld, C.S., Williams, T.J., Dussaq, A.M., Ducklow, H., Erickson, M.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2012) A metagenomic assessment of winter and summer bacterioplankton from Antarctica Peninsula coastal surface waters. 
\i ISME J
\i0  
\b 6:
\b0  1901\'961915.\
Hessen, D.O., Agren, G.I., Anderson, T.R., Elser, J.J., and de Ruiter, P.C. (2004) Carbon Sequestration in Ecosystems: the Role of Stoichiometry. 
\i Ecology 
\i0\b 85
\b0 : 1179-1192.\
Howard, E.C., Sun, S., Biers, E.J., and Moran, M.A. (2008) Abundant and diverse bacteria involved in DMSP degradation in marine surface waters. 
\i Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 10
\b0 : 2397-2410.\
Hunt, B.P.V., Pakhomov, E.A., and McQuaid, C.D. (2001) Short-term variation and long-term changes in the oceanographic environment and zooplankton community in the vicinity of a sub-Antarctic archipelago. 
\i Mar Biol 
\i0\b 138
\b0 : 369-381.\
Huston, A.L., Krieger-Brocket, B.B., and Deming. J.W. (2000) Remarkably low temperature optima for extracellular enzyme activity from Arctic bacteria and sea ice. 
\i Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 2
\b0 : 383-388.\
Jung, S., Oh, T., and Yoon, J. (2006) 
\i Colwellia aestuarii 
\i0 sp. nov., isolated from a tidal flat sediment in Korea. 
\i Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 
\i0\b 56
\b0 : 33-37.\
Junge, K., Eicken, H., and Deming, J.W. (2003) Motility of 
\i Colwellia psychrerythraea
\i0  Strain 34H at Subzero Temperatures. 
\i Appl Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 69
\b0 : 4282-4284.\
Kalanetra, K.M., Bano, N., and Hollibaugh, J.T. (2009) Ammonia-oxidizing Archaea in the Arctic Ocean and Antarctic coastal waters. 
\i Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 11
\b0 : 2434-2445.\
Kawahata, H., and Ishizuka, T. (2000) Amino acids in interstitial waters from ODP Sites 689 and 690 on the Maud Rise, Antarctic Ocean. 
\i Geochem J 
\i0\b 34
\b0 : 247-261.\
King, G.M. (2003) Molecular and Culture-Based Analyses of Aerobic Carbon Monoxide Oxidizer Diversity. 
\i Appl Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 69
\b0 : 7257-7265.\
Kirchman, D.L. (2002) The ecology of Cytophaga-Flavobacteria in aquatic environments. 
\i FEMS Microbiol Ecol 
\i0\b 39
\b0 : 91-100.\
Kjelleberg, S., Hermansson, M., M\'e5rd\'e9n, P., and Jones, G. (1987) The transient phase between growth and nongrowth of heterotrophic bacteria, with emphasis on the marine environment. 
\i Annu Rev Microbiol 
\i0\b 41
\b0 : 25-49.\
Kuwahara, H., Yoshida, T., Takaki, Y., Shimamura, S., Nishi, S., Harada, M.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2007) Reduced genome of the thioautotrophic intracellular symbiont in a deep-sea clam, 
\i Calyptogena okutanii
\i0 . 
\i Curr Biol 
\i0\b 17
\b0 : 881-886.\
Lauro, F.M., DeMaere, M.Z., Yau, S., Brown, M.V., Ng, C., Wilkins, D.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2011) An integrative study of a meromictic lake ecosystem in Antarctica. 
\i ISME J 
\i0\b 5
\b0 : 879-895.\
Lauro, F.M., McDougald, D., Thomas, T., Williams, T.J., Egan, S., Rice, S.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2009) The genomic basis of trophic strategy in marine bacteria. 
\i Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 
\i0\b 106
\b0 : 15527-15533.\
Liu, H., Nolla, H., and Campbell, L. (1997) 
\i Prochlorococcus 
\i0 growth rate and contribution to primary production in the equatorial and subtropical North Pacific Ocean. 
\i Aquat Microb Ecol 
\i0\b 12
\b0 : 39-47.\
Liu, H., Campbell, L., Landry, M.R., Nolla, H.A., Brown, S.L., and Constantinou, J. (1998) 
\i Prochlorococcus 
\i0 and 
\i Synechococcus 
\i0 growth rates and contributions to production in the Arabian Sea during the 1995 Southwest and Northeast Monsoons. 
\i Deep-Sea Res Pt II 
\i0\b 45
\b0 : 2327-2352.\
Lomas, M.W., and Moran, S.B. (2011) Evidence for aggregation and export of cyanobacteria and nano-eukaryotes from the Sargasso Sea euphotic zone. 
\i Biogeosciences 
\i0\b 8
\b0 : 203-216.\
Marchant, H.J., Davidson, A.T., and Wright, S.W. (1987) The Distribution and Abundance of Chroococcoid Cyanobacteria in the Southern Ocean. 
\i Proc NIPR Symp Polar Biol 
\i0\b 1
\b0 : 1-9.\
Mary, I., Heywood, J., Fuchs, B., Amann, R., Tarran, G., Burkill, P., and Zubkov, M. (2006) SAR11 dominance among metabolically active low nucleic acid bacterioplankton in surface waters along an Atlantic meridional transect. 
\i Aquat Microb Ecol 
\i0\b 45
\b0 : 107-113.\
Meth\'e9, B.A., Nelson, K.E., Deming, J.W., Momen, B., Melamud, E., Zhang, X.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2005) The psychrophilic lifestyle as revealed by the genome sequence of 
\i Colwellia psychrerythraea
\i0  34H through genomic and proteomic analyses. 
\i Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 
\i0\b 102
\b0 : 10913-10918.\
Meyer, B., and Kuever, J. (2007) Molecular analysis of the diversity of sulfate-reducing and sulfur-oxidizing prokaryotes in the environment, using aprA as functional marker gene. 
\i Appl Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 73
\b0 : 7664-7679.\
Mikaloff Fletcher, S.E., Gruber, N., Jacobson, A.R., Doney, S.C., Dutkiewicz, S., Gerber, M.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2006) Inverse estimates of anthropogenic CO\sub 2\nosupersub  uptake, transport, and storage by the ocean. 
\i Global Biogeochem Cy 
\i0\b 20
\b0 .\
Moore, J.K., Abbott, M.R., and Richman, J.G. (1999) Location and dynamics of the Antarctic Polar Front from satellite sea surface temperature data. 
\i J Geophys Res 
\i0\b 104
\b0 : 3059-3073.\
Moran, M.A., Belas, R., Schell, M.A., Gonz\'e1lez, J.M., Sun, F., Sun, S.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2007) Ecological genomics of marine Roseobacters. 
\i Appl Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 73
\b0 : 4559-4569.\
Moran, M.A., Buchan, A., Gonzalez, J.M., Heidelberg, J.F., Whitman, W.B., Kiene, R.P.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2004) Genome sequence of 
\i Silicibacter pomeroyi 
\i0 reveals adaptations to the marine environment. 
\i Nature 
\i0\b 432
\b0 : 910-913.\
Murray, A.E., and Grzymski, J.J. (2007) Diversity and genomics of Antarctic marine micro-organisms. 
\i Philos T Roy Soc B 
\i0\b 362
\b0 : 2259-2271.\
Myers, E. W., Sutton, G. G., Delcher, A. L., Dew, I. M., Fasulo, D. P., Flanigan, M. J., Kravitz, S. A., 
\i et al
\i0 . (2000). A whole-genome assembly of 
\i Drosophila
\i0 . 
\i Science
\i0  
\b 287
\b0 :2196\'962204.\
Newton, I.L.G., Woyke, T., Auchtung, T.A., Dilly, G.F., Dutton, R.J., Fisher, M.C.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2007) The 
\i Calyptogena magnifica 
\i0 chemoautotrophic symbiont genome. 
\i Science 
\i0\b 315
\b0 : 998-1000.\
Ng, C., DeMaere, M.Z., Williams, T.J., Lauro, F.M., Raftery, M., Gibson, J.a.E.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2010) Metaproteogenomic analysis of a dominant green sulfur bacterium from Ace Lake, Antarctica. 
\i ISME J 
\i0\b 4
\b0 : 1002-1019.\
Noguchi, H., Park, J., and Takagi, T. (2006) MetaGene: prokaryotic gene finding from environmental genome shotgun sequences. 
\i Nucleic Acids Res 
\i0\b 34
\b0 : 5623-5630.\
Obernosterer, I., Catala, P., Lebaron, P., and West, N.J. (2011) Distinct bacterial groups contribute to carbon cycling during a naturally iron fertilized phytoplankton bloom in the Southern Ocean. 
\i Limnol Oceanogr 
\i0\b 56
\b0 : 2391-2401.\
Oh, H.-M., Kwon, K.K., Kang, I., Kang, S.G., Lee, J.-H., Kim, S.-J., and Cho, J.-C. (2010) Complete genome sequence of "
\i Candidatus 
\i0 Puniceispirillum marinum" IMCC1322, a representative of the SAR116 clade in the Alphaproteobacteria. 
\i J Bacteriol 
\i0\b 192
\b0 : 3240-3241.\
Orsi, H., Whitworth III, T., and Nowlin Jr, W.D. (1995) On the meridional extent and fronts of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current. 
\i Deep-Sea Res Pt I 
\i0\b 42
\b0 : 641-673.\
Partensky, F., Hess, W.R., and Vaulot, D. (1999) 
\i Prochlorococcus
\i0 , a marine photosynthetic prokaryote of global significance. 
\i Microbiol Mol Biol Rev 
\i0\b 63
\b0 : 106-127.\
Pollard, R., Lucas, M., and Read, J. (2002) Physical controls on biogeochemical zonation in the Southern Ocean. 
\i Deep-Sea Res Pt II 
\i0\b 49
\b0 : 3289-3305.\
Pop, M., Phillippy, A., Delcher, A.L., and Salzberg, S.L. (2004) Comparative genome assembly. 
\i Brief Bioinform 
\i0\b 5
\b0 : 237-248.\
Preston, C.M., Wu, K.Y., Molinski, T.F., and DeLong, E.F. (1996) A psychrophilic crenarchaeon inhabits a marine sponge: 
\i Cenarchaeum symbiosum 
\i0 gen. nov., sp. nov. 
\i Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 
\i0\b 93
\b0 : 6241-6246.\
Rapp\'e9, M.S., Connon, S.A., Vergin, K.L., and Giovannoni, S.J. (2002) Cultivation of the ubiquitous SAR11 marine bacterioplankton clade. 
\i Nature 
\i0\b 418
\b0 : 630-633.\
Rath, J., Wu, K.Y., Herndl, G.J., and DeLong, E.F. (1998) High phylogenetic diversity in a marine-snow-associated bacterial assemblage. 
\i Aquat Microb Ecol 
\i0\b 14
\b0 : 261-269.\
Reisch, C.R., Stoudemayer, M.J., Varaljay, V.A., Amster, I.J., Moran, M.A., and Whitman, W.B. (2011) Novel pathway for assimilation of dimethylsulphoniopropionate widespread in marine bacteria. 
\i Nature 
\i0\b 473
\b0 : 208-211.\
Rusch, D.B., Halpern, A.L., Sutton, G., Heidelberg, K.B., Williamson, S., Yooseph, S.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2007) The Sorcerer II Global Ocean Sampling expedition: northwest Atlantic through eastern tropical Pacific. 
\i PLoS Biol 
\i0\b 5
\b0 : e77.\
Sabine, C.L., Feely, R.A., Gruber, N., Key, R.M., Lee, K., Bullister, J.L.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2004) The oceanic sink for anthropogenic CO\sub 2\nosupersub . 
\i Science 
\i0\b 305
\b0 : 367-371.\
Selje, N., Simon, M., and Brinkhoff, T. (2004) A newly discovered Roseobacter cluster in temperate and polar oceans. 
\i Nature 
\i0\b 427
\b0 : 445-448.\
Sokolov, S., and Rintoul, S.R. (2002) Structure of Southern Ocean fronts at 140\'b0 E. 
\i J Marine Syst 
\i0\b 37
\b0 : 151-184.\
Sokolov, S., and Rintoul, S.R. (2009a) The circumpolar structure and distribution of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current fronts. Part 2: Variability and relationship to sea surface height. 
\i J Geophys Res-Oceans
\i0 : C11.\
Sokolov, S., and Rintoul, S.R. (2009b) The circumpolar structure and distribution of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current fronts. Part 1: Mean circumpolar paths. 
\i J Geophys Res-Oceans
\i0 : C11.\
Strutton, P., Brian Griffiths, F., Waters, R., Wright, S., and Bindoff, N. (2000) Primary productivity off the coast of East Antarctica (80-150\'b0 E): January to March 1996. 
\i Deep-Sea Res Pt II 
\i0\b 47
\b0 : 2327-2362.\
Swan, B.K., Martinez-Garcia, M., Preston, C.M., Sczyrba, A., Woyke, T., Lamy, D.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2011) Potential for Chemolithoautotrophy Among Ubiquitous Bacteria Lineages in the Dark Ocean. 
\i Science 
\i0\b 333
\b0 : 1296-1300.\
Swingley, W.D., Sadekar, S., Mastrian, S.D., Matthies, H.J., Hao, J., Ramos, H.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2007) The complete genome sequence of 
\i Roseobacter denitrificans
\i0  reveals a mixotrophic rather than photosynthetic metabolism. 
\i J Bacteriol 
\i0\b 189
\b0 : 683-690.\
Thomalla, S.J., Waldron, H.N., Lucas, M.I., Read, J.F., Ansorge, I.J., and Pakhomov, E. (2011) Phytoplankton distribution and nitrogen dynamics in the southwest indian subtropical gyre and Southern Ocean waters. 
\i OS 
\i0\b 7
\b0 : 113-127.\
Topping, J.N., Heywood, J.L., Ward, P., and Zubkov, M.V. (2006) Bacterioplankton composition in the Scotia Sea, Antarctica, during the austral summer of 2003. 
\i Aquat Microb Ecol 
\i0\b 45
\b0 : 229-235.\
Tripp, H.J., Kitner, J.B., Schwalbach, M.S., Dacey, J.W.H., Wilhelm, L.J., and Giovannoni, S.J. (2008) SAR11 marine bacteria require exogenous reduced sulphur for growth. 
\i Nature 
\i0\b 452
\b0 : 741-744.\
Trull, T., Rintoul, S.R., Hadfield, M., and Abraham, E.R. (2001) Circulation and seasonal evolution of polar waters south of Australia: implications for iron fertilization of the Southern Ocean. 
\i Deep-Sea Res Pt II 
\i0\b 48
\b0 : 2439-2466.\
Vila-Costa, M., Sim\'f3, R., Harada, H., Gasol, J.M., Slezak, D., and Kiene, R.P. (2006) Dimethylsulfoniopropionate uptake by marine phytoplankton. 
\i Science 
\i0\b 314
\b0 : 652-654.\
Wagner-Dobler, I., and Biebl, H. (2006) Environmental biology of the marine Roseobacter lineage. 
\i Annu Rev Microbiol 
\i0\b 60
\b0 : 255-280.\
Walker, C.B., de la Torre, J.R., Klotz, M.G., Urakawa, H., Pinel, N., Arp, D.J.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2010) 
\i Nitrosopumilus maritimus
\i0  genome reveals unique mechanisms for nitrification and autotrophy in globally distributed marine crenarchaea. 
\i Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 
\i0\b 107
\b0 : 8818-8823.\
Walsh, D.A., Zaikova, E., Howes, C.G., Song, Y.C., Wright, J.J., Tringe, S.G.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2009) Metagenome of a versatile chemolithoautotroph from expanding oceanic dead zones. 
\i Science 
\i0\b 326
\b0 : 578-582.\
Ward, P., Whitehouse, M., Brandon, M., Shreeve, R., and Woodd-Walker, R. (2003) Mesozooplankton community structure across the Antarctic Circumpolar Current to the north of South Georgia: Southern Ocean. 
\i Mar Biol 
\i0\b 143
\b0 : 121-130.\
Weber, T.S., and Deutsch, C. (2010) Ocean nutrient ratios governed by plankton biogeography. 
\i Nature 
\i0\b 467
\b0 : 550-554.\
West, N.J., Obernosterer, I., Zemb, O., and Lebaron, P. (2008) Major differences of bacterial diversity and activity inside and outside of a natural iron-fertilized phytoplankton bloom in the Southern Ocean. 
\i Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 10
\b0 : 738-756.\
Whitworth III, T. (1980) Zonation and geostrophic flow of the Antarctic circumpolar current at Drake Passage. 
\i Deep-Sea Res 
\i0\b 27
\b0 : 497-507.\
Wilkins, D., Yau, S., Williams, T.J., Allen, M.A., Brown, M.V., DeMaere, M.Z., 
\i et al. 
\i0 (2012) Key microbial drivers in Antarctic aquatic environments. 
\i FEMS Microbiol Rev
\i0  doi: 10.1111/1574-6976.12007\
Williams, G.D., Nicol, S., Aoki, S., Meijers, A.J.S., Bindoff, N.L., Iijima, Y.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2010) Surface oceanography of BROKE-West, along the Antarctic margin of the south-west Indian Ocean (30-80\'b0 E). 
\i Deep-Sea Res Pt II 
\i0\b 57
\b0 : 738-757.\
Williams, T.J., Lauro, F.M., Ertan, H., Burg, D.W., Poljak, A., Raftery, M.J., and Cavicchioli, R. (2011) Defining the response of a microorganism to temperatures that span its complete growth temperature range (-2\'b0C to 28 \'b0C) using multiplex quantitative proteomics. 
\i Environ Microbiol 
\i0\b 13
\b0 : 2186-2203.\
Williams, T.J., Long, E., Evans, F., Demaere, M.Z., Lauro, F.M., Raftery, M.J.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2012a) A metaproteomic assessment of winter and summer bacterioplankton from Antarctic Peninsula coastal surface waters. 
\i ISME
\i0  
\i J
\i0  
\b 6:
\b0 1883-1900.\
Williams, T.J., Wilkins, D., Long, E., Evans, F., DeMaere, M.Z., and Raftery, M.J. (2012b) The role of planktonic Flavobacteria in processing algal organic matter in coastal East Antarctica revealed using metagenomics and metaproteomics. 
\i Environ Microbiol
\i0  doi:10.1111/1462-2920.12017\
Yau, S., Lauro, F.M., DeMaere, M.Z., Brown, M.V., Thomas, T., Raftery, M.J.
\i  et al.
\i0  (2011) Virophage control of antarctic algal host-virus dynamics. 
\i Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 
\i0\b 108
\b0 : 6163-6168.\
Ye, Y., and Doak, T.G. (2009) A parsimony approach to biological pathway reconstruction/inference for genomes and metagenomes. 
\i PLoS Comput Biol 
\i0\b 5
\b0 : e1000465.\
Yoon, J., Yasumoto-Hirose, M., Katsuta, A., Sekiguchi, H., Matsuda, S., Kasai, H., and Yokota, A. (2007) 
\i Coraliomargarita akajimensis
\i0  gen. nov., sp. nov., a novel member of the phylum 'Verrucomicrobia' isolated from seawater in Japan. 
\i Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 
\i0\b 57
\b0 : 959-963.\
Zhang, R., Liu, B., Lau, S.C.K., Ki, J.-S., and Qian, P.-Y. (2007) Particle-attached and free-living bacterial communities in a contrasting marine environment: Victoria Harbor, Hong Kong. 
\i FEMS Microbiol Ecol 
\i0\b 61
\b0 : 496-508.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\sb60
\cf0 \
\pard\tx426\pardeftab720\li426\fi-426\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Supporting information\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\sb60\qj

\b0 \cf0 Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this article:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Fig. S1. 
\b0 Neighbour-joining tree of GSO-EOSA-1-like 16S rRNA gene sequences from the SO. Sequence labeled in black text are reads from our metagenomic dataset; in red text are 16S rRNA gene sequences from Gammaproteobacterial Sulphur Oxidisers (GSO) and other gammoproteobacteria from Genbank. The tree was constructed using arb (Ludwig 
\i et al.,
\i0 2004).\
\

\b Table S1. 
\b0 Full sample information including physiochemical parameters.\
\
\pard\tx0\tx885\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Table S2. 
\b0 Relative abundances of all OTUs in all samples from all size fractions. Size fraction is given in OTU name, e.g. the column \'93Mycoplasma genitalium strain G37-08\'94 represents the relative abundance of the 
\i Mycoplasma genitalium
\f1\i0  G37 OTU in the 0.8 \uc0\u956 m size fraction. 
\f0 \
\

\b Table S3. 
\b0 Contributions of individual OTUs to variance between the North and South zones. Size fraction is given in OTU name, e.g. the row \'93Mycoplasma genitalium strain G37-08\'94 represents the contribution to variance of the 
\i Mycoplasma genitalium
\f1\i0  G37 OTU in the 0.8 \uc0\u956 m si
\f0 ze fraction. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Table S4. 
\b0 Genes related to aerobic respiration annotated in scaffolds from assemblies of GSO-EOSA-1 affiliated reads. Assembly of reads with identity to 
\i Ca.
\i0  \'93Ruthia magnifica\'94 or 
\i Ca. 
\i0 \'93Vesicomyosocius okutanii\'94 was performed with wgs-assembler (Celera, Alameda) and ORFs predicted with MetaGene (Noguchi et al. 2006). ORFs were annotated with blastn against the NCBI nr database (E-value threshold 1.0 \'d7 10\super -3\nosupersub ). Only selected matches relevant to aerobic respiration are shown.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\tx0\tx885\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Table S5. 
\b0 Contributions of KEGG ortholog groups to variance between the North and South zones. Size fraction is given in ortholog group name, e.g. the row \'93DNA polymerase III subunit alpha [EC:2.7.7.7]-08\'94 represents the contribution to variance of the DNA polymerase 
\f1 III subunit alpha ortholog group in the 0.8 \uc0\u956 m size fraction.
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Table S6. 
\b0 Contributions of KEGG modules to variance between the North and South zones.\
\pard\tx426\pardeftab720\li426\fi-426\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Figure legends\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\sb60\qj

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b \cf0 Fig. 1. 
\b0 Sites of samples used in this study. The area depicted is in the Australian sector of the Southern Ocean. Samples are from the North zone (triangles) and South zone (squares). The dashed line gives the approximate position of the Polar Front, associated with a major core of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC), at the time of the voyage.\
\

\b Fig. 2. 
\b0 Contribution of OTUs to variance between North and South zones, and differential abundance of OTUs from each size fraction between the two zones. Each coloured (red or blue) rectangle represents an OTU identified through analysis of blast matches between SO metagenome data and the RefSeq database. The area of each rectangle as a proportion of the total plot area corresponds to that OTU\'92s contribution to the total variance between the two zones. The colour of each rectangle corresponds to difference in relative abundance of that OTU between the zones, with blue indicating a higher relative abundance south of the PF, and red a higher abundance north of the PF. OTUs from clades or taxonomic ranks of interest have been grouped, with labels in bold and groups separated by gray lines. Groups and OTUs with a low contribution to variance which were not grouped are unlabeled. OTUs from each size fraction have also been grouped, with labels in black outline and size fractions separated by thick black lines. The total contribution to variance of each size fraction is given as a percentage. Full data are given in Table S3, supporting information.\
\

\b Fig. 3. 
\b0 Decomposition of KEGG modules of interest to contributing classes, orders or genera. The left side of each stack (S) indicates the proportion of the module abundance contributed by each class, order or genus in the South Zone, while the right side (N) represents the North Zone. As the contributions are relative and represent unitless module abundances, no axis is given and proportions are not comparable between modules. Contributing classes, orders or genera are arranged in descending order of the difference in the relative contributions between the zones. Only the eight highest contributors for each module are shown, with the remainder collapsed into the \'93Other\'94 group. The taxonomic ranks to which each module was decomposed are as follows: sn-glycerol 3-phosphate transport, peptide-nickel transport, simple sugar transport and sulfonate/nitrate/taurine transport were decomposed to order; glycine betaine/proline transport and branched-chain amino acid transport to genus; pyrimidine deoxyribonucleotide biosynthesis, adenine nucleotide biosynthesis and guanine nucleotide biosynthesis to order; methionine salvage to genus; sulphur reduction to class; photosystem I and photosystem II to genus; histidine degradation to glutamate and histidine biosynthesis to class.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b\fs28 \cf0 \page \pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs24 \cf0 Table 1. 
\b0 Average OTU abundances for each size fraction and zone\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2910\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2634\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clmrg \clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2634\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clmrg \clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2634\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clmrg \clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2634\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clmrg \clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2634\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0

\b\fs22 \cf0 OTU
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\qj

\fs22 \cf0 North Zone
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\qj

\fs22 \cf0 South Zone
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\qj

\fs22 \cf0 0.1 \'b5m
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\qj

\fs22 \cf0 0.8 \'b5m
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\qj

\fs22 \cf0 3.0 \'b5m
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\qj

\fs22 \cf0 0.1 \'b5m
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\qj

\fs22 \cf0 0.8 \'b5m
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\qj

\fs22 \cf0 3.0 \'b5m
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\b0\fs22 \cf0 Ca. 
\i0 \'93Pelagibacter ubique\'94 HTCC1062
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 61.8
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 25.0
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 23.9
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 58.9
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 22.4
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 17.6
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Synechococcus
\i0  sp. CC9902
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.11
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 9.84
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 4.97
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.00
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.00
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.10
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Roseobacter
\i0  sp. OCh114
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.31
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 2.93
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.59
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.45
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 3.99
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 2.66
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Synechococcus
\i0  sp. CC9311
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.03
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 4.62
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 4.41
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.00
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.00
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.03
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Ca. 
\i0 \'93Ruthia magnifica\'94 str. Cm (
\i Calyptogena magnifica
\i0 )
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.67
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.65
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.55
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 2.99
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 2.62
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.03
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Silicibacter pomeroyi
\i0  DSS-3
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.26
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 2.29
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.15
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.31
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 2.51
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.58
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Gramella forsetii
\i0  strain KT0803
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.24
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.21
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.75
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.50
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 2.35
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.89
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Ca. 
\i0 \'93Puniceispirillum marinum\'94 IMCC1322
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.64
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 2.08
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.27
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.36
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.38
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.71
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Robiginitalea biformata
\i0  strain HTCC2501
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.28
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.10
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.30
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.47
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.88
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.40
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Flavobacterium psychrophilum
\i0  strain JIP02/86
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.17
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.84
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.22
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.43
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.96
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.60
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Silicibacter
\i0  sp. TM1040
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.23
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.65
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.87
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.27
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.80
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.23
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Ca. 
\i0 \'93Vesicomyosocius okutanii\'94 strain HA
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.46
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.46
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.21
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.97
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.81
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.22
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Jannaschia
\i0  sp. DFL-12
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.18
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.38
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.74
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.24
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.69
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.80
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Zunongwangia profunda
\i0  strain SM-A87
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.15
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.75
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.06
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.30
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.41
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.20
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Colwellia
\i0  sp. 34H
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.02
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.36
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 2.74
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.05
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.51
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.04
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Pseudoalteromonas atlantica
\i0  strain T6c
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.01
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.48
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.99
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.02
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.41
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.13
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Jannaschina
\i0  sp. CCS1
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.12
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.93
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.48
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.17
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.23
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.82
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Nitrosopumilus maritimus
\i0  SCM1
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.02
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.01
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.01
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.08
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.31
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.21
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Coraliomargarita akajimensis
\i0  strain DSM 45221
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.04
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.08
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.12
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.12
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.54
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 1.68
\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9384\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3840\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1234
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2468
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth992\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3702
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth926\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4937
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6171
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx7405
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth878\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i\fs22 \cf0 Flavobacterium johnsoniae 
\i0 strain UW101
\i\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i0\fs22 \cf0 0.09
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.42
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.61
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.20
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.94
\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs22 \cf0 0.86
\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 * OTU identifications and abundances based on GAAS and MINSPEC analysis of blast matches between the SO metagenomic dataset and RefSeq. This table includes the twenty overall most abundant OTUs. A complete of all OTU abundances for all samples and size fractions is available in the supporting information (Table S2). Abundances are relative and expressed as percentages.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\b \cf0 \page \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Table 2. 
\b0 KEGG modules which contribute highly to variance between the NZ and SZ. A complete list of modules which contribute to variance is given in the supporting information (Table S5).\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvmgf \clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2982\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clmrg \clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b\fs22 \cf0 KEGG module\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Average abundance (standardised and log transformed)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Contribution to variance (%)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvmrg \clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clmrg \clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 North Zone\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 South Zone\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\b0 \cf0 Photosystem II\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.57\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.42\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 2.21\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Complex I (NADH dehydrogenase), NADH dehydrogenase I/diaphorase subunit of the bidirectional hydrogenase\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.24\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.01\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 1.80\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Photosystem I\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.34\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.43\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 1.70\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Pyrimidine deoxyribonuleotide biosynthesis, CDP/CTP => dCDP/dCTP,dTDP/dTTP\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.66\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.51\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 1.16\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Histidine degradation, histidine => N-formiminoglutamate => glutamate\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.31\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.42\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 1.14\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Methionine salvage pathway\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.43\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.29\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 1.14\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 sn-Glycerol 3-phosphate transport system\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.16\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.29\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 1.11\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Complex I (NADH dehydrogenase), NADH dehydrogenase I\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 1.05\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 1.08\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 1.06\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Branched-chain amino acid transport system\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.83\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.79\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.96\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Dipeptide transport system\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.02\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.14\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.95\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Adenine nucleotide biosynthesis, IMP => ADP/dADP,ATP/dATP\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.74\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.62\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.95\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Glycine betaine/proline transport system\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.56\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.66\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.94\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Sulfur reduction, sulfate => H2S\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.44\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.54\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.91\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Simple sugar transport system\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.39\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.46\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.9\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth5070\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1559\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1423\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1524\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf0 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 Peptides/nickel transport system\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.98\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.99\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\cf0 0.89\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl480\slmult1

\i \cf0 The following figures are presented in the order Figure 1-3.
\i0 \
}